# minimuxer

minimuxer is the lockdown muxer used by [SideStore](https://github.com/SideStore/SideStore). It runs on device through [em_proxy](https://github.com/SideStore/em_proxy).

## Building

```
make build # builds static libs
make xcframework # builds an xcframework
make zip # same as `xcframework`, and zips the final product for upload to GitHub release
```

### Publishing new release

We use a github action to generate a `.xcframework` for use in Swift PM or Xcode.

This overwrites the last build on the tag `Build`.

Either push a commit with `[build]` as the prefix for the commit message or push an empty commit with:

```
git commit --allow-empty -m "[build]"
```

## Development

### Off device

While minimuxer is built to run on device, it is recommended to test from your computer through USB to speed up the development process. (Obviously, you should still test on device; see
[On device](#on-device) for more info)

To test off device, open [tests.rs](src/tests.rs) and use the `make_test` macro to make a test (this ensures logging and other things are initialized). You can then use
`cargo test <test function name> -- --nocapture` to run it. (`-- --nocapture` allows for logs to be shown, which are essential for debugging and knowing if a test did what it was supposed to do)

After implementing your feature, you should also run `cargo clippy --no-deps` to lint your code. If you want some of the lints to auto fix, you can use `cargo clippy --no-deps --fix` (make sure to
commit your changes beforehand).

Note: tests currently don't automatically mount the developer disk image, you must do that yourself with `ideviceimagemounter` or open SideStore on device and let the auto mounter mount it (check
minimuxer logs in View Error Logs to see if it did so successfully).

### On device

SideStore communicates with minimuxer through Swift and C bindings generated by [swift-bridge](https://github.com/chinedufn/swift-bridge). swift-bridge makes it very easy to pass arguments to
functions, especially types like `Vec`, and it also makes returning `Result` very easy.

As of February 20th, minimuxer is included in SideStore as a prebuilt static library, built by GitHub Actions. Previously, it was included in SideStore as an Xcode project using cargo-xcode, but this
made build times very long.

<!-- TODO: outdated -->
<!-- To build minimuxer for iOS and copy it to the SideStore repo, use the Makefile. Example: `make copy SIDESTORE_REPO="../SideStore"` -->

## Developer Notes

Unless otherwise stated, references to AltServer implementations are referring to `AltServer/Devices/ALTDeviceManager.mm`

### Adding a swift-bridge/ffi function

Once you've made your function, added it to the tests and verified that it works, you can add it to swift-bridge/ffi to allow Swift to use it.

1. Import your function in the `ffi imports` section of `lib.rs`
2. In `mod ffi` -> `extern "Rust"`, add your function to the section for the file you added it to.

### Returning a Result from a swift-bridge/ffi function

When making your function, you might have something similar to this:

```rs
pub fn install_provisioning_profile(profile: Vec<u8>) -> Result<()> { ... }
```

You can `use crate::Result` as a shorthand to `Result<T, crate::Errors>`. (Most files already `use` this)

When exposing your function to the `ffi` module, we unfortunately can't use the `crate::Result` type alias. Instead, do this:
`Result<[the type your function returns. in the case of install_provisioning_profile, it is ()], Errors>`

### `minimuxer_install_provisioning_profile`

AltServer implementation: search `installProvisioningProfiles` and `installProvisioningProfile:(`
